Refactor Slash Command section (#860)
discordjs/guide: guide/creating-your-bot/command-handling.md

> # Command handling

Reviewer: I don't agree with the changes on this page at all 😕 It ends up being much longer than it needs to be

# Command handling

> As we add more commands to our bot, the `index.js` and `deploy-commands.js` files will get bigger and bigger. To solve this, we can move each command into its own file, and implement a *command handler* in our `index.js` and `deploy-commands.js`.

Author: could you be more specific on what "information" you're referring to?

> As we add more commands to our bot, the `index.js` and `deploy-commands.js` files will get bigger and bigger. To solve this, we can move each command into its own file, and implement a *command handler* in our `index.js` and `deploy-commands.js`.

Reviewer 2: I think what is being referred to are the answers to "Why using an `if/else` chain is bad?" and "Why do you want to implement a command handler?" which the original text explains very nicely.

> If you've been following the guide, here are the base files and code we have so far:

Author: 👍🏻  i will revert this

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		await interaction.reply('Pong!');
	} else if (interaction.commandName === 'server') {
		await interaction.reply(`Server name: ${interaction.guild.name}\nTotal members: ${interaction.guild.memberCount}`);
	} else if (interaction.commandName === 'user') {

> 		await interaction.reply(`Your tag: ${interaction.user.tag}\nYour id: ${interaction.user.id}`);

Author: 👍🏻 i will revert this

	}
});

client.login(token);
```
:::
::: code-group-item deploy-commands.js
```js
const { SlashCommandBuilder } = require('@discordjs/builders');
const { REST } = require('@discordjs/rest');
const { Routes } = require('discord-api-types/v9');
const { clientId, guildId, token } = require('./config.json');

> const commands = [

Author: > the command handler is based on previous code

the previous code is from `creating-commands.md`, which has all three commands (ping, server, user) in the `deploy-commands.js` file. 

Not only that, but this code block is located at the top of the page and is simply there as a "these are the files from the previous section. we will be modifying these files to implement a command handler". The implementation of the command handler is then explained in the rest of the page. So i believe "replicating" the files from the previous section is appropriate here.

---
The current guide is divided into these sections:
- individual command files
  - move the commands (made from SlashCommandBuilder) from `deploy-commands.js` into its own file
  - move the reply of each command from `index.js` into its corresponding file
- reading command files
  - import the command files in `deploy-commands.js` using for loop
  - create a Collection in `index.js` and populate it using for loop
- dynamically executing commands
  - in the `index.js` file, use `.get()` and then `.execute()`

My refactor re-arranges them into these sections:
- implement command handler for the `deploy-command.js` file
  - move the commands (made from SlashCommandBuilder) into its own file
  - import the command files in `deploy-commands.js` using for loop
- implement command handler for the `index.js` file
  - move the reply of each command into its corresponding file
  - create a Collection in `index.js`, so we can dynamically execute commands using `.get()` and then `.execute()`
- summary
  - further explanation why it's a better approach to split up the commands into their own files.
  - by having the "structure" and the "execute" of a command in the same file, it becomes easier to develop the "execute" because you can see the "structure" at the same time.
    - for example, if you see that the structure has a USER and a STRING option, then you know you can `.getUser()` and `.getString()` in your execute.

```
:::
::::
## Command handler for deploy-commands.js

> Remember that the goal of a command handler is to move each command into its own file, so we can dynamically import them. In the case of the `deploy-commands.js` file, we built the structure of our 3 Slash Commands inside the `deploy-commands.js` file. We want to move these structures into their own separate file.

Author: see my reply above

└── package.json
```

> Create a new folder named `commands`, and inside of it, create 3 files for your 3 commands:

Author: the installation of the builder was already stated in the previous page `creating-commands.md`. i can revert this if you want more redundancy.

> Create a new folder named `commands`, and inside of it, create 3 files for your 3 commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new folder named `commands`, which is where you'll store all of your commands.

We'll be using utility methods from the [`@discordjs/builders`](https://github.com/discordjs/builders) package to build the slash command data, so if you haven't already, open your terminal and install it.

Now, create the files for your existing commands:
```

We'll be using utility methods from the [`@discordjs/builders`](https://github.com/discordjs/builders) package to build the slash command data, so open your terminal and install it.
Create a new folder named `commands`, and inside of it, create 3 files for your 3 commands:

```sh:no-line-numbers
npm install @discordjs/builders
```:no-line-numbers {3-6}
discord-bot/
├── node_modules
├── commands
│   ├── ping.js
│ 	├── server.js
│   └── user.js
├── config.json
├── deploy-commands.js
├── index.js
├── package-lock.json
└── package.json
```

> Next, create a `commands/ping.js` file for your ping command:

Author: i believe my wording is more explicit. i can revert this if you want.

> Next, create a `commands/ping.js` file for your ping command:

Reviewer 2: I think the original is more concise.

Next, in your `commands/ping.js` file, create the same structure for the `ping` command that we have in `deploy-commands.js`, and then export it:

:::: code-group
::: code-group-item commands/ping.js
```js
const { SlashCommandBuilder } = require('@discordjs/builders');

module.exports = {
	data: new SlashCommandBuilder()
		.setName('ping')
		.setDescription('Replies with Pong!'),

> 	async execute(interaction) {

Author: see my reply [here](https://github.com/discordjs/guide/pull/860/files#r702453696)

> Go ahead and do the same for `commands/server.js` and `commands/user.js`.

Author: > The examples are more than just these two files.

the guide only shows three commands though?

---
> putting their respective blocks of code inside the `execute()` function.

i separated the `execute()` part into the next section. see my reply [here](https://github.com/discordjs/guide/pull/860/files#r702453696) for my reasoning.

> Go ahead and do the same for `commands/server.js` and `commands/user.js`.

Reviewer 2: Most readers would already have other commands so the original text is better here imo.

::: tip

> [`module.exports`](https://nodejs.org/api/modules.html#modules_module_exports) is how you export data in Node.js so that you can [`require()`](https://nodejs.org/api/modules.html#modules_require_id) (import) it in other files.

Author: 👍🏻  i can revert this

If you need to access your client instance from inside a command file, you can access it via `interaction.client`. If you need to access external files, packages, etc., you should `require()` them at the top of the file.
:::

> Now that each command is in its own file, we can implement the command handler for our deployment script. (Notice that we got rid of the `SlashCommandBuilder` import here, because we don't need it in the deployment script anymore)

Author: is this relevant to the guide though? we strongly encourage the use of a deploy script, so i dont think this sentence is obsolete.

In your `index.js` file, make these additions:
:::: code-group
::: code-group-item deploy-commands.js
```js {4,6-10}
const { REST } = require('@discordjs/rest');
const { Routes } = require('discord-api-types/v9');
const { clientId, guildId, token } = require('./config.json');
const { readdirSync } = require('fs')

```js {1-2,7}
const fs = require('fs');
const { Client, Collection, Intents } = require('discord.js');
const { token } = require('./config.json');
const commands = [];
for (const file of readdirSync('./commands').filter(f => f.endsWith('.js'))) {
	const command = require(`./commands/${file}`);
	commands.push(command.data.toJSON());
}

const client = new Client({ intents: [Intents.FLAGS.GUILDS] });
const rest = new REST({ version: '9' }).setToken(token);

client.commands = new Collection();
(async () => {
	try {
		await rest.put(
			Routes.applicationGuildCommands(clientId, guildId),
			{ body: commands },
		);

		console.log('Successfully registered application commands.');
	} catch (error) {
		console.error(error);
	}
})();
```
:::
::::

::: tip

> [`fs`](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html) is Node's native file system module. <DocsLink section="collection" path="class/Collection" /> is a class that extends JavaScript's native [`Map`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) class, and includes more extensive, useful functionality.

Reviewer 2: Why was this tip removed?

Author: The tip about `fs` seemed unnecessary, given we already have an explanation for `fs.readdirSync()`.

The tip about `Collection` was moved further down (in the section for "command handler for `index.js`") in line 280.

	}
});
```
:::
::::

Let's go back to our `commands/ping.js` and implement the following code:

:::: code-group
::: code-group-item commands/ping.js
```js {8-10}
const { SlashCommandBuilder } = require('@discordjs/builders');

module.exports = {
	data: new SlashCommandBuilder()
		.setName('ping')
		.setDescription('Replies with pong!'),

	async execute(interaction) {
		await interaction.reply('Pong!');
	}
};
```
:::
::::

> Go ahead and do the same for `commands/server.js` and `commands/user.js`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can go ahead and do the same for the rest of your commands.
```

::: warning
Make sure to import the [`Collection`](https://discord.js.org/#/docs/collection/main/class/Collection) class from the `discord.js` module. (line 2)
:::

:::: code-group
::: code-group-item index.js
```js {1,2,7,9-14,23-32}
const { readdirSync } = require('fs');
const { Client, Collection, Intents } = require('discord.js');
const { token } = require('./config.json');

const client = new Client({ intents: [Intents.FLAGS.GUILDS] });

client.commands = new Collection();

for (const file of readdirSync('./commands').filter(f => f.endsWith('.js')) {
	const command = require(`./commands/${file}`);
	// Set a new item in the Collection
	// With the key as the command name and the value as the exported module
	client.commands.set(command.data.name, command);
}

client.once('ready', () => {
	console.log('Ready!');
});

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

  const command = client.commands.get(interaction.commandName);

	if (!command) return await interaction.reply({ content: 'Command file to handle this command was not found!', ephemeral: true });

	try {

> 		command.execute(interaction);

Reviewer 3: execute can be async so it wouldn't be catched without awaiting it
```suggestion
		await command.execute(interaction);
```

Take the `commands/ping.js` file as example:

:::: code-group
::: code-group-item commands/ping.js
```js {4-6,8-10}
const { SlashCommandBuilder } = require('@discordjs/builders');

module.exports = {
	data: new SlashCommandBuilder()
		.setName('ping')
		.setDescription('Replies with pong!'),

	async execute(interaction) {
		await interaction.reply('Pong!');
	}
};
```
:::
::::
We have the `data` of our `ping` command, which defines the "structure" of the command. It defines how the command will look when a user tries to use the command in Discord.

Below it, we have the `execute` of our `ping` command, which defines how we want our bot to reply to the `ping` command.

The `deploy-commands.js` file will import the `data` (structure) of the command for registration:

:::: code-group
::: code-group-item deploy-commands.js
```js :no-line-numbers {2}
const command = require(`./commands/${file}`);
commands.push(command.data.toJSON());
```
:::
::::

while the `index.js` file will import the file and then call the `execute()` of the command:

:::: code-group
::: code-group-item index.js

> ```js :no-line-numbers {2,4,6}

Author: i can see your point and i thought the same as well. but i ended up including `no-line-numbers` because the line number will not match up with the actual file, and therefore might create confusion for the reader.

const command = require(`./commands/${file}`);
client.commands.set(command.data.name, command);
...
const command = client.commands.get(interaction.commandName);
...
command.execute(interaction);
```
:::
::::

And that's it! Whenever you want to add a new command, make a new file in your `commands` directory, and then do what you did for the other commands. 

::: warning

> If you create a new command file, edit an existing command's `data` (structure), or delete a command file from the `commands` folder, **REMEMBER TO RUN `node deploy-commands.js` AGAIN TO REGISTER THEM!**

Author: 👍🏻 i will make this change

Our deployment script will **overwrite** ALL the previously registered commands with the array of commands that you provide in `rest.put()`.
:::: code-group
::: code-group-item deploy-commands.js
```js:no-line-numbers {3}
await rest.put(
	Routes.applicationGuildCommands(clientId, guildId),
	{ body: commands }, // <-- the variable "commands" is the array of commands in the deployment script
);
```

> :::

Author: My intention for including this second sentence in the warning block is to let the reader know that `rest.put()` will overwrite all the previously registered commands (the same way an `ApplicationCommandManager#set()` behaves)

i can word it differently to fit the tone of the guide, or i can remove it altogether.
